merge 2 pairs of sections, add convertors (SchemaOps) (#31)
w3c-cg/awesome-semantic-shapes: README.md

- [TopQuadrant SHACL API](https://github.com/TopQuadrant/shacl) <img alt="Maven Central Version" src="https://img.shields.io/maven-central/v/org.topbraid/shacl" align="top"> <img alt="Maven Central Last Update" src="https://img.shields.io/maven-central/last-update/org.topbraid/shacl" align="top"> 💰 - Supports SHACL Core, SHACL-SPARQL, SHACL rules; based on Jena; `BSD-3-Clause` license; `Java`.
  - [EU Interoperability Test Bed (ITB)](https://github.com/ISAITB/shacl-validator) <img alt="GitHub last commit" src="https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/ISAITB/shacl-validator" align="top"> - playground based on TQ API, [docs](https://www.itb.ec.europa.eu/docs/guides/latest/validatingRDF/index.html): validate [RDF data](https://www.itb.ec.europa.eu/shacl/any/upload), [SHACL shapes](https://www.itb.ec.europa.eu/shacl/shacl/upload), [DCAT-AP.DE](https://www.itb.ec.europa.eu/shacl/dcat-ap.de/upload)
  - [Sparna SHACL playground](https://shacl-play.sparna.fr/play/) - Free online suite of tools to work with SHACL; based on TQ API; `Java`

> - [TopQuadrant SHACL API Extended](https://github.com/SHACL-X/shacl-x) <img alt="GitHub Release" src="https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/SHACL-X/shacl-x" align="top"> <img alt="GitHub Release Date" src="https://img.shields.io/github/release-date/SHACL-X/shacl-x" align="top"> - Fork of TQ SHACL API + added SHACL-JS based on GraalVM Polyglot; [docs](https://shacl-x.github.io/docs/); `BSD-3-Clause` license; `Java`.

Reviewer: It calls itself `TopBraid SHACL API Extended`...

Author: - @tpluscode  you're right, and https://github.com/TopQuadrant/shacl uses the same word: I'll change that
- @amivanoff I think the 💰 icon is incorrect: while TopBraid is paid, the TopBraid SHACL API is open source. I'll remove it

  - [playground](https://playground.rdf-ext.org/shacl/) - Browser-based testbed.
  - [rdf-ext-cli](https://github.com/rdf-ext/rdf-ext-cli) - Command line tool for validation. Data and shapes can be given as file, URL, or SPARQL endpoint + query.
- [SHACL for Ruby](https://github.com/ruby-rdf/shacl) <img alt="Gem Version" src="https://img.shields.io/gem/v/shacl" align="top"> <img alt="GitHub last commit" src="https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/ruby-rdf/shacl" align="top"> - A pure-Ruby library for working with the Shape Constraint Language to validate the shape of RDF graphs; `BSD-3-Clause` license; `Ruby`.
- [maplib](https://github.com/DataTreehouse/maplib) <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/v/tag/DataTreehouse/maplib" align="top"> <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/DataTreehouse/maplib" align="top"> - High-performance RDF knowledge graph construction, SHACL validation and SPARQL-based enrichment. `Apache-2.0` license. `Rust` with `Python` bindings. But SHACL is not open source: [lib/shacl/src/lib.rs](https://github.com/DataTreehouse/maplib/blob/main/lib/shacl/src/lib.rs) says `unimplemented!("Contact Data Treehouse to try")`  💰

> - [rudof](https://github.com/rudof-project/rudof) [![Latest Version](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/rudof-cli.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/rudof-cli) [![PyPI](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/pyrudof)](https://pypi.org/project/pyrudof/) <img alt="GitHub Release Date" src="https://img.shields.io/github/release-date/rudof-project/rudof" align="top">, [docs](https://rudof-project.github.io/rudof/cli_usage/shacl_validate.html) - Implements ShEx, SHACL, [DCTAP](https://www.dublincore.org/specifications/dctap/), and other technologies in the RDF ecosystem; library and CLI; `Apache` and `MIT` licenses; `Rust` with `Python` bindings.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [rudof](https://github.com/rudof-project/rudof) <img alt="Latest Version" src="https://img.shields.io/crates/v/rudof-cli" align="top"> <img alt="Release Date" src="https://img.shields.io/github/release-date/rudof-project/rudof" align="top"> - Implements ShEx, SHACL, [DCTAP](https://www.dublincore.org/specifications/dctap/), and other technologies in the RDF ecosystem; library and CLI; `Apache` and `MIT` licenses; `Rust` with `Python` bindings. [docs](https://rudof-project.github.io/rudof/cli_usage/shacl_validate.html).
```

```
<link> - <Description>.
```
1. It should be only one URL link (HTML or Markdown) in and it could be multiple HTML  here.
  1.1. Changed badge from the "Markdown" format to the "HTML".
  1.2. Moved [docs] from the to the .
2. Deleted PyPI second badge, any of it could provide the last release info. No need to mention all binaries repositories.
3. Removed "Github", we are not linking any particular repository.

- [Europarl Shapes](https://data.europarl.europa.eu/en/developer-corner) - Application profiles for European Parliament & all related dataset-specific profiles.

## Shape Convertors and Generators

Also see [Polyglot Modeling](https://github.com/json-ld/yaml-ld/issues/19) tools (issue in the YAML-LD project). Sometimes called **SchemaOps**; the name "schema salad" is used sometimes ;-)

- [ShacShifter](https://github.com/AKSW/ShacShifter) <img alt="GitHub last commit" src="https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/AKSW/ShacShifter" align="top"> ☠️ - Shape shifter from SHACL to other formats (currently RDForms); `GPL-3.0` license; `Python`.
- [SHACL To JSON Schema](https://github.com/comake/shacl-to-json-schema) <img alt="NPM Version" src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@comake/shacl-to-json-schema" align="top"> <img alt="GitHub last commit" src="https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/comake/shacl-to-json-schema" align="top"> - SHACL-to-JSON-Schema translator; `Typescript`.
- [shapiro](https://github.com/mathiasrichter/shapiro) <img alt="GitHub last commit" src="https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/mathiasrichter/shapiro" align="top"> - SHACL to JSON-Schema, HTML.

> - [rudof](https://github.com/rudof-project/rudof) [![Latest Version](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/rudof-cli.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/rudof-cli) [![PyPI](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/pyrudof)](https://pypi.org/project/pyrudof/) <img alt="GitHub Release Date" src="https://img.shields.io/github/release-date/rudof-project/rudof" align="top">, [docs](https://rudof-project.github.io/rudof/cli_usage/convert.html) - Converts between different RDF Data modeling technologies: SHACL, SHEX, [DCTAP](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap), UML diagrams, HTML documentation.

Reviewer 2: ```
<link> - <Description>.
```
1. It should be only one URL link (HTML or Markdown) in <link> and it could be multiple HTML <img> here.
   1.1. Changed badge from the "Markdown" format to the "HTML".
   1.2. Moved `[docs]` from the <link>to the <Description>.
2. Deleted PyPI second badge, any of it could provide the last release info. No need to mention all binaries repositories.

- [SHACL Play! JSON-LD context](https://shacl-play.sparna.fr/play/context) <img alt="Version" src="https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/sparna-git/shacl-play" align="top"> <img alt="GitHub Release Date" src="https://img.shields.io/github/release-date/sparna-git/shacl-play" align="top"> - SHACL-to-JSON-LD context generator; `Java`.
- [SHACL Play! Converter](https://shacl-play.sparna.fr/play/convert) - Converts between RDF schema formats. Has OWL-to-SHACL (open, semi-closed, closed). 
- [owl2shacl](https://github.com/sparna-git/owl2shacl) - OWL-to-SHACL conversion rules.
- [elevont/owl2shacl](https://github.com/elevont/owl2shacl) - A CLI tool that tries to convert simple OWL ontologies into SHACL shapes; `AGPL-3.0` license; `rust`.

> - [LinkML](https://linkml.io/linkml/) ([Github](https://github.com/linkml/linkml) and [more repos](https://github.com/orgs/linkml/repositories)) <img alt="GitHub last commit" src="https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/linkml/linkml" align="top"> <img alt="GitHub Release Date" src="https://img.shields.io/github/release-date/linkml/linkml" align="top"> [![PyPi](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/linkml.svg)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/linkml) - Input is YAML; output is [SHACL](https://linkml.io/linkml/generators/shacl.html), [ShEx](https://linkml.io/linkml/generators/shex.html), JSON Schema, JSON-LD context and instances, SPARQL, OWL, GraphQL, Pydantic Python, ProtoBuf, various documentation formats; `Apache` license `Python`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [LinkML](https://linkml.io/linkml/) <img alt="Latest Version" src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/linkml" align="top"> <img alt="Release Date" src="https://img.shields.io/github/release-date/linkml/linkml" align="top"> - Input is YAML; output is [SHACL](https://linkml.io/linkml/generators/shacl.html), [ShEx](https://linkml.io/linkml/generators/shex.html), JSON Schema, JSON-LD context and instances, SPARQL, OWL, GraphQL, Pydantic Python, ProtoBuf, various documentation formats; ([Github](https://github.com/linkml/linkml) and [more repos](https://github.com/orgs/linkml/repositories)); `Apache` license `Python`.
```

Based on the general "grammar"
```
<link> - <Description>.
```

1. The `<link>` here contains several URL links. It is better to move all secondary links to the `<Description>`.
2. Changed the "GitHub last commit" badge to the "PyPI Latest Version" in the `<link>`.
3. Deleted the link to the PyPI version at the end of the `<link>`.
4. Moved other repos to the `<Description>`.

Author: @amivanoff why 2? I think keep the  "GitHub last commit" because it shows a date (whereas "PyPI Latest Version" shows only a version number). LinkML is under active development and knowing the last commit date is useful

Reviewer 2: If you're a dependency consumer, you're more interested in the latest stable version, not the latest commit. But there is no "version freshness" marker in badges, unfortunately.

But we could make it simple a little: drop "last version" and go with "last commit" only.
